Robert Green letters
Utica, 14" July 1828
Dear Father,
I have spent a few moments this morning with Mr. Judd, he was at Mr. Anthon’s, our
minister’s house. He does not appear to have altered much except in the expression of his eyes;
there appears to me to be at times a kind of wildness when he looks at any indifferent (sic) object.
For instance, when he has been making a remark to a person and withdraws them. | did not say
anything about his deceased wife. I do not know whether I ought to have done so. Mr. Anthon
is one of the finest men that ever ministered at any alter (sic). You can always be sure of
hearing a good sermon. He always speaks to the heart, and in his private life is as amiable and
exemplary, as we could wish to see the ...... and professed servant of the Most High.
I need not tell you that I am happy to hear of the unexpected turn in your affairs. It seemed to
me to be almost too good news to be true. I shall never disdain after what I have seen and I
believe felt of that power some men call good fortune, but which, were they to understand they
would Providence.
1am at present (from appearances) high in favor with Mr. Fenton. He has placed rather more
confidence in me than I could wish, as he asks my advice, and has been governed by it, in
several important matters relating to business. He sleeps in the store as he is a bachelor (sic)
(of about 30 years) and a better hearted man does not live within the precincts of Utica. He is
much better educated than Mr. Cooper although, between you and I, he is not so good a
merchant. Our stock of goods amount to $14,000, which is a pretty respectable stock even for
Utica.
‘Mr. Cooper is very kind to me, even more so than when I was with him: he seems anxious for
my welfare, advises me so. He says it will be my own fault if I do not succeed in anything I
undertake, but says, I have chosen a wrong profession. Now int hat I do not agree with him.
Mrs. _ Cooper is a particular friend of mine and is very open in declaring her sorrow at my
leaving her husband.
I have not received but one letter from Jared since I have been here the last time. I should not
think he was calculated for the bar but he knows better than any other person which way his
talents may be best applied (sic).
I wish I could remedy my temper in the way you advise me too (sic). I have always strove
against it but there is something in the feeling not easily governed by the feelings. It would be
like throwing fire on to a burning building to put it out. If had _ ahead I would venture
anything that my heart and head would stand by each through most difficulties at least till
money was spent. Such is my disposition. But at present I see no hopes of my becoming so
rich, never mind.
