Utica, March 28, 1827
Dear Mother,
Knowing that my long delay in answering your letter will not be construed into
neglect, I shall proceed in answering it without a long preface of apologies.
I received a letter from Papa and one from Arch Mercer some time ago. Arch does not
write me very good news of the prospects of the young men in New London. Why do they stay
there? What can they expect to do in a place where inactivity is the order of the day.
Your minute account of my dear brother and sisters was very acceptable and made me
almost homesick. I want to see them very much, but I can assure you I have no desire to make
N. L. a permanent residence. It is altogether too dull but still it is “home, sweet home,” and
‘endeared to my heart by a great many fond recollections of gone by days when life and hope
were young; but perhaps you will say they have not yet grown old. I know they have not but
everything seems so entirely altered since a year ago that I feel almost an old man, I know know
by experience what I then scarcely knew in theory.
Business in Utica is at present very dull the roads are very bad which keeps the farmers at
home. ___ Cooper starts for N York next Monday to buy his spring assortment.
You inquire what kind of an appearance I make.
Ihave on while writing a grey ___coat with pockets on the outside, blue pantaloons, white
vest, black __. The cloths (sic) I brought with me were worn out a long time ago but I have
replaced them with others, of course, my great coat is not much worn, my shirts must be
replaced soon.
I last week changed my boarding house from the Dwight’s to York House. Mrs. Dwight
has but few at her house, at the York House there are thirty. I thought it would be an advantage
to me to board where there was a good many. Mr. _ H Cooper and his lady board there.
I continue as far as I have an opportunity of knowing in the good graces of my
employers. But think I shall leave them in June as Judge Cooper has a son that he wants to get
into the store and he will be here in June. He would have been in the store last Fall if I had not
been here. In fact I have always considered myself as having been forced upon them and you
know “forced meat is never good.” B. F. Cooper tells me I have chosen a wrong profession. He
advises me to study for the Episcopal Ministry or some other professions. Very good advice,
surely, but smells strong of wanting to be rid of me I suppose. Sarah would like to know what
kind of a husband Emily Price has married: He is a clerk in an Insurance Office, _ $400 a year,
and depends on that salary for support, is 45 years old, not very handsome and has one
daughter eight years old. What induced her to marry him I cannot devise, without it was a
prospect of a single blessed-ness.
Is cousin Harriet in New London? If I recollect right she is there. You never say anything
about her. I am sincerely glad Robert and Elisabeth Hazard are doing so well. I think Elisabeth
deserves praise for her exertions and independence. B. F. Cooper had a letter from Charles C.
Hazard last week. He enjoys tolerably good health, but has lost his fine complexion. He wrote
his brother Henry had a son. I hope Sarah will write me soon. Give my love to everybody and
believe me my Dear Mother to be your affectionate and dutiful son. Robert S. Green
